# Time-Series-Analysis-of-Deflator-of-Dwellings
The study focused on the following topics and related findings:
-	Stationarity: through univariate analysis, we computed the time series plots, correlograms and Augmented Dickey-Fuller (ADF) Unit Roots test. The first findings showed that the log-levels of the variables were I(1), whereas the simultaneous differences were I(0). The ADF confirmed all these outcomes with the exception of the variable 洧논2, which turned out to be stationary even in log-levels.
-	ARDL and PSS testing: due to our data periodicity (quarters), we decided to impose an ARDL (4,4,4). After having performed the main misspecification tests (Godfrey, inspection of correlogram, White, ARCH and normality tests), we observed white noise residuals, although heteroskedastic and not normally distributed. This was sufficient to prove the goodness of the model and allowed us to proceed with the PSS testing which confirmed the presence of the long-run relationship. In this way, we detected a long-run positive elasticity for both explanatory variables, and the speed of adjustment parameter equal to -0.498.
-	Engle-Granger cointegration: after running the OLS estimation of the static long-run relationship, we computed the Unit Roots test of the cointegration regression residuals. Hence, we found cointegration between the variables and, as a consequence, superconsistent estimators. After having computed the Engle-Granger cointegration test to identify the long-term relationships between non-stationary variables, we computed the ECM model to understand the short-run dynamics. The results were coherent with ARDL model: even though the SOA2 was slightly lower, we still observed a positive change in 洧녽 induced by a change in the explanatory variables.
-	Johansen cointegration test: this method is the most informative since it enables us to check for more than one cointegrating relationships. As a matter of fact, through this test we found that the rank of the matrix is equal to 2, meaning that there are two cointegrating relationships. Consequently, by computing the VECM, we investigated deeper these relationships: the first one between 洧녽 and 洧논1 and the second one between 洧논1 and 洧논2. This technique proved that 洧논2 is actually I(1) and 洧논1 is not weakly exogenous. Furthermore, the loading parameters matrix showed coefficients coherent with common sense and economic literature.
-	HP filter: through the decomposition of our variables into permanent and transitory components, and by performing the Johansen cointegration test, we obtained further evidence that our three variables are I(1), since their trend components are non-stationary (not a full rank matrix).
